The next letter in our alphabet is B for a BackTrack.
As soon as your new found awareness skills spot something that could put your life in danger, and as
soon as that danger feels real and imminent, the next step is to find an exit group and get out of
there as quickly and safely as possible.
Remember this acronym e t g.
S A skate to game safety.
OK, technically it's an initial ism.
This is your one and only goal in self-defense.
Not to fight, not to beat your attacker or take him down or be the hero.
If you must do these things in order to get away to safety, then do so, but only as far as is necessary
to get away and no further.
It is unbelievably important that you get away safely as soon as possible, always take that option
if it's available.
This should be your default versus engaging with a potential threat.
If you can't avoid it altogether, then evade, evade, evade.
And here's how you get into the habit of identifying escape routes as soon as you walk into a new environment.
Often, the most obvious option is back the way it came in, but look for others like other roads,
side streets, walkways or even usable vehicles.
If you're inside, look for doors or windows or rooves or balconies.
If there's a way down or even vents if they're big enough, it's always good to have more than one escape
option, so you're prepared to get the hell out of there, no matter what goes down.
Now there is an evil villain that you must be wary of, and that is Mr. Freeze, Mr. Freeze.
Can you feel it coming the ice of space?
No, don't be silly.
Not Arnold.
I'm talking about that nasty freeze that takes hold of your body when panic or shock hits you when your
parasympathetic nervous system activates decreasing your heart rate and your muscular response.
It's part of that fight, flight or freeze dilemma we're all so fond of in self-defense.
The only bad option there is the freeze, but the good news is that just the act of looking around for
potential dangers and escape routes and other important situational indicators and warning signs will
keep your body moving and breathing, which is the best way to fight the freeze.
The key is to get out of your head and into your body.
Breathe.
Move your body.
Use your voice.
Focus on what you can physically feel.
And you'll be able to stay alert, calm and ready to flee as soon as safely possible.
OK, so how do you know when it's safe to escape?
Well, it's all about getting to safety, right?
So you should escape as soon as you feel you could safely reach a place of safety that you hopefully
already have in your mind without being attacked or stopped before you get there.
You don't have to feel in serious danger to leave, either.
We'll talk in the next module more about what constitutes a real and imminent threat.
But for the purposes of this exercise, you don't need a good reason.
You can run away any time you like.
There is no shame or blame in that.
OK, so then what sorts of safe places could you escape to?
Well, let's think about what safety means to you.
Who would you go to for help when you're feeling in danger?
The most obvious option would be any police officer, law enforcement or security guard that you can
find nearby your local police station or fire house or hospital or courthouse.
Really, any government building open to the public is probably a safe bet.
If none of those are available, a good backup could be any place of business with customer service
or staff who would be readily available to call for more help.
Like a hotel or a large store or shopping mall, if you're at home or in your neighborhood, it's good
to have a neighbour's house in mind where you know someone you trust is usually home.
The idea is to make a beeline for anyone you know you can trust to help if you don't have any of these
options available within reachable distance.
The next best option is any public place that is busy and crowded.
There is safety in numbers.
Obviously, that may not be much of an option at the moment, but once we return to a stage of post-pandemic
normal, you will be able to access more public places for safety.
Of course, at the same time, you'll likewise face more ways to be attacked.
Unfortunately, they do go together.
You got to take the bad with the day.
So I guess that's one reason to be grateful for our current COVID situation.
Silver lining that is, unless you are in a dangerous situation right now where you are, in which case
I commend you for having the courage to get this course, and I strongly urge you to take the next step
and call the National Domestic Abuse Hotline at one 800 799 safe.
That's one 800 799 SASE.
It's free and available 24 seven, and the people there can help you, so please don't hesitate to call
them now.
Hopefully, all of this has given you a better sense of how to find exit routes and people and places
of safety, as well as how to know when to escape, to gain safety.
But it's always good to practice.
So when you are ready, go ahead and move on to the next video and give these a go yourself.
Go on.
I'm right behind you.